Lets just do a massive directory, we already have Active Directory, but it sucks  

What is explicity is and does:
- read only directory for quick and easy user look up and manual upkeep of this spicific tools database. 
mainly for me as practice. the tool will only gain its data via import of data from a CSV. the CSV could 
be an activedirectory export of all users or my copy of the HR list of all employees. The tool can
use either the csv itself or a database built for the app to use as its directory database. the database
can be built if needed and manually inserted with users if needed 
This tool will not have any connections to active directory or a service we use. it is self 
contained and isolated 
Who this is for:
me a pc tech who doesnt want to enter 4 menus to just verify the first.last spelling of a user
on a call or in person 

What problems does it solve better than AD?
nothing it is  worse but its for me to not have to use active directory users and computers, 
active directory admin center, sccm, or intune. those are sometimes such a pain to use. 
I want a quick look up method i dont care if I need to manually update it either 

development considerations and plans:
for now we will use a fake set of people, say 100 made up users, all will have some 
way to indetify that they are fake users, but I still want them to be in a real school, maybe 
spread out over a few schools. also they should have varied and realistic names but 
the positon will be the fake person identifier, fake positions will include:
"wizard, witch, mage, knight, cleric, santa's_helper"
NOT A SOURCE of Truth
NOT A Essential tool for anyone else 

actual task/prompt:

Let’s make a python cli tool which will act as a directory for my organization.  

It’s not going to be fully up to date, why? Because our Active Directory users are based on imports from our HR system. Our HR system is a SaaS which holds the “foundational” employee database, anyone who gets hired paid and fired (when they are fired they disappear) 

HR manages the inputs and outputs of this data, our system administrators then regularly script or manually import that data into our Active Directory system.  

I cannot access that data and do not want to  

This is what I have and can do 

I have a csv of an export from the HR database, it had a name of very employee, position and possibly location. However that data, despite being only a couple months old, is likely very outdated. I have access to Active Directory and could, if needed, export a csv of all users.. 

I want this python app to have its own database, that simply imported the data mentioned previously, and will need to be manually updated if needed.  

 

The app will need: 

An database of users  

Code that will allow the user to : 

Open the program  

Select different functions such as search, edit and view by school, position etc  

All from command line interface  

 

User workflow should look like this: 

User open program via command line, such as running the “python main.py” command to “open” the program. From the the program should say “Welcome to SCS python directory (alpha project)  

User will be presented with these menu items:  

Search for user 
view list of all users 
view list of users by school
view list of users by position
add directory listing 
remove directory listing 
exit 

psudo code will be a seperate file 

further considerations:
Store last_imported_at for sure and maybe per-record last_verified_at if decided to add later

Decide: manual edits override imports or imports overwrite edits? manual edits override import

Decide: do you keep “terminated” users as inactive (recommended for audit/history) or delete them?
keep them as inactive then delete after a while maybe add an option to do that 

other user permissions:
read only for anyone else who decides they want to use this 
I will be the admin for edits and changes but no one else will really use this
edit justification will be a comment required 

Where is the DB stored
this is a tough one 
for testing the database will be local only but updated via git if that is possible
if not then thats fine, I can put a database in a shared file server or host it on a 
pc i use if needed later on. 