What is explicity is and does:
- read only directory for quick and easy user look up and manual upkeep of this spicific tools database. 
mainly for me as practice. the tool will only gain its data via import of data from a CSV. the CSV could 
be an activedirectory export of all users or my copy of the HR list of all employees. The tool can
use either the csv itself or a database built for the app to use as its directory database. the database
can be built if needed and manually inserted with users if needed 
This tool will not have any connections to active directory or a service we use. it is self 
contained and isolated 
Who this is for:
me a pc tech who doesnt want to enter 4 menus to just verify the first.last spelling of a user
on a call or in person 

What problems does it solve better than AD?
nothing really important but its for me to not have to use active directory users and computers, 
active directory admin center, sccm, or intune. those are sometimes such a pain to use. 
I want a quick look up method i dont care if I need to manually update it either 
aka 
“Optimized for fast local lookups and browsing from CSV snapshots without opening admin consoles.”

Non-goals

No authentication integration

No live AD queries

No HR system integration

Not authoritative

Not used for compliance or operational decision making

This keeps you honest when you get tempted.
NOT A SOURCE of Truth
NOT A Essential tool for anyone else 

actual task/prompt:

Let’s make a python cli tool which will act as a directory for my organization.  

It’s not going to be fully up to date, why? Because our Active Directory users are based on imports from our HR system. Our HR system is a SaaS which holds the “foundational” employee database, anyone who gets hired paid and fired (when they are fired they disappear) 

HR manages the inputs and outputs of this data, our system administrators then regularly script or manually import that data into our Active Directory system.  

I cannot access that data and do not want to  

This is what I have and can do 

I have a csv of an export from the HR database, it had a name of very employee, position and possibly location. However that data, despite being only a couple months old, is likely very outdated. I have access to Active Directory and could, if needed, export a csv of all users.. 

I want this python app to have its own database, that simply imported the data mentioned previously, and will need to be manually updated if needed.  
